STEP 1
Buy a ready made canvas in a craft store. Buy any size that you feel you would like to work on. A smaller one, 10x10, or 12x12 might be best, if you are just learning and experimenting. The canvas will be ready to work on as is, but if you prefer a colored background, buy a jar of Gesso, to prime the canvas and give it a touch of color. The canvas dries quickly when using Gesso for Acrylics. Another option is using canvas board, which is cheaper, or you can even use gesso to prime Masonite or any other flat board if you want to work larger or are on a budget.

STEP 2
Decide whether to use acrylics or oil paint. Acrylics have no odor, are easy to work with. They dry fast and can be painted over if you make a mistake. Oils are the complete opposite, but are not preferred because they take longer to dry and have an odor, and do not allow you to completely overpaint to start all over again,

STEP 3
Buy a color chart and an easel and paints and brushes. Buy the basic colors at first, and use the color chart to determine which colors belong together.

STEP 4
Start your painting by thinking of an object, or a scene. Do not think of the actual drawing, just dwell on the thought. Look at a vase, not at how it actually would be sketched, but how you would think it would look. Your imagination, and your feelings will create what you paint on the canvas. Remember, you are interpreting, not drawing.

STEP 5
Study composition principles and see if you can do an abstract painting based on the idea of one of those principles rather than on a specific subject. This is very likely to turn out as a good abstract painting!

STEP 6
Allow the brush to take over painting with one color. When your thought process stops, you stop. Add another color, shade it, make it lighter at any part, or heavier at another. Improve what you see on the canvas and of what you think should be added.

STEP 7
Add a bit of yellow, to a part of the red, blend it and make various shades of orange. Some areas will be darker, some lighter according to the brush strokes.

STEP 8
Remember once you feel that the painting is finished, STOP. Do not go back to improve or touch it up. Do not overwork your painting, but learn to finish it, the moment you feel it is finished.

